So...this isn't really a checkpoint two. This is an almost totally new idea for a project, but it's what I really want to do. I'm just having some problems picking the tool to do it.  I will list my points of interest/sources/process below, in no particular order, to give a sense of what I'm thinking of.

#####Historical Newspapers

* I want this to be my primary source of data. My thoughts on historical newspapers are as follows: a) newspapers are a way of telling history.   
* They are usually (especially with newspapers published before photography was common and affordable) almost entirely focussed on text, are strongly directed in terms of how information is presented in in what order, and present historical data in VERY brief snippets, with little supplementary information and depth of topic.  
* Small-town historical newspapers are like snapshots of particular aspects of a communitiy, frozen in time, and as such they can provide social historians with a limited glimpse into the events of one day or week in a small community--who was born, who died, who got married, what social events went on, the opening of new shops, sales and auctions of real estate, announcements of new local officials, etc.
* Limitations of the newspaper format are that there is no room for and context or supplementary detail; details of background, context, locations, etc., are often assumed to be known to the reader and thus present a problem to readers of newspapers published in a time or location that is unfamiliar to them. The format of a newspaper can also be very boring, dry, repetitious, and visually unstimulating. 
* I think that the format encourages a sense of distance between the reader and the topics presented, in that it limits the ability to see these things in their broader social context and thus sort of dehumanizes the subjects described therein. Because of the brevity of the information, the usually complete lack of social or historical context, content in newspapers can also come across as an extremely dry and uninteresting form of historical data.

#####What I want to do
I want to take the information on social life and community found in a historical newspaper and put it into a something closer to its original social and geographical context.  I want to research the location and details of local events and people mentioned in a small-town historical newspaper and provide some type of visual presentation that shows the information in a way that re-creates the sense of the real people and real places being talked about in the newspaper.
For example, I have found digitized copies of the St. John's Morning Chronicle from August 30th-September 2nd, 1865 (a daily newspaper, so four days in all); in this newspaper there is the mention of a dance for young people being held at the 'Fishermen's Hall'.  I have researched this place and managed to find its original location and even a photo, which is [here](http://www.historictrust.ca/southcott-awards/southcott-winners/1985.aspx). This building has a rich history and in fact was built only a couple of years before the newspaper in question was published, so the fact that the hall even existed--and offered a venue for social events--was probably something that was in itself very new and exciting and that fact just does not come across in the bare format of a newspaper.
Also in the newspaper is an advertisement for a piano teacher taking students, and the street address is actually given! Other places, such as 'John Ryan's Farm on Old Placentia Road (which was being auctioned off at the time)', are probably no longer in existence, but I did track down Old Placentia Road and can probably pinpoint a rough approximate location with further research.

#####The Visualization
This is the part I haven't quite figured out. I have two ideas.
The first is the idea of the image of a map of St. John's and surrounding area (I looked for a historical map but so far can't find one of the city before 1932; I don't think having a historical map is essential in any case).  I played around with Palladio, MapWarper, and CartoDB; I also read the tutorials on QGIS, but I don't think that an actual mapping tool would work for this project, and this is because all of these tools work with specific coordinates, and these are not readily available for specific buildings in particular towns/cities, especially ones that may not even exist anymore! In terms of a map, my idea is closer to having a map of the are as a background, and then having some way to make points on that map (similar to the MapWarper exercise and making control points, but without the purpose of overlaying the two maps), which can open into little windows or something in which pictures or information about that location would be visible. So basically I picture a sort of interactive map of the city of St. John's and surrounding area, on which I will have created points of interest based on the activities mentioned in the newspapers. So for example, one point of interest would be the Fishermen's Hall I've already mentioned, whose geographic location I would locate on the map, which when clicked over hovered over or something could provide a photo of the building, a reference to the event mentioned in the paper, and perhaps some brief historical data about the building.  The trouble is, I really have no idea what sort of softwhere I would use for this.

Secondly, I've considered the possibility of something more interactive--something like Prezi perhaps; a sort of interactive exploration into the information presented in the newspaper. I don't really feel that this would be a perfect match for how I want to visualize the data, but it would be a fun way to really highlight the directive nature of a newspaper, in that you can jump into it at any point and really explore what you want and leave the rest (you can do this with a newspaper, of course, but the book-like format of cover, pages, cover is a design that encourages one to read from beginning to end). It would also be a way to explore the odd but always unquestioned way that newspapers present very unconnected data (like an advertisement for a health-cure next to an article about politics in England, for example) in quick sequence, with no apologies. This format would not provide a geographically-oriented presentation of information, which I would really like given that my focus would be on trying to tell some aspects of local history in a small place in a very limited time-frame, but it would probably allow me to include much more information and background on individual people/places.

These are my thoughts--I am really concerned that it's taken me this long to figure out what I want to do, but I think this is still a doable project, and I could really use some help with figuring out an appropriate format and picking a tool to help present my data in a satisfying way.

Update: I've been messing around with Prezi today and I think I'm moving towards the sort of thing I've imagined. You can view that [here](http://prezi.com/fhlr-uhv6aqi/?utm_campaign=share&utm_medium=copy&rc=ex0share).

You can view copies of the digitized newspaper I've chosen in the main area of my project folder.









